# Files

There are two Jupyter Notebooks available: (i) An interactive simulation of the basic SUIR model for use with Google Colab. (ii) A fully documented Jupyter Notebooks, for use in Google Colab or JupyterLab, which includes a full derivation of the model, and numerous simulation studies. This notebook is the basis for the manuscript linked to this work. The main file is named "SUIR Modelling VXY.ipynb". The more basic notebook with the interactive SUIR model is named SUIR Modelling Interactive.ipynb"

We further more uploaed here several of the key figures that summarise the simulation studies.

# SUIR Modelling

During the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, numerous mathematical models have been developed. Using these models to predict infections, for a particular region or country has been very difficult to do a lack of sufficiently rich and time accurate datasets. Reporting artefacts and missing data about asymptomatic spreaders, imply considerable margins of uncertainty for predictions.
There is however a second use of models, that investigate general pattern and can answer questions, including: What is the role of testing in controlling the pandemic? What difference does an early restriction of contacts (lockdown) have on the timing and size of infections have? What effect does the length of the lockdown have on the occurrence of a second peak have?
We present here a SIR-based, SUIR model in which the influence of testing and a reduction of contacts is studied by distinguishing 'Unidentified' and 'Identified' spreaders of infections. The model uses four ordinary differential equations and is kept deliberately simple to investigate general pattern occurring from testing and contact restrictions. The model goes beyond other efforts, by introducing time dependent parameter curves that represent different strategies in controlling the pandemic.
Our analysis reveals the effect of 'pro-active' testing for the design of contact restriction measures. By pro-active testing we mean testing beyond those people who show symptoms. The simulations can explain why the timing of contract restrictions and pro-active testing is important. The model can also be used to study the consequence of different strategies to exit from lockdown, whether a short lockdown, combined with pro-active testing, can be sufficient or whether an exit strategy with a cyclic pattern of restrictions and no restrictions is appropriate.
Since both, a total lockdown and pro-active testing will be difficult to achieve, especially in the early phase of a pandemic. Our analysis suggests however that with pro-active testing and strict isolation of identified spreaders, it is possible to achieve control of the pandemic without a total lockdown. Our simulations also show that a short lockdown or period lockdown-exit pattern bring substantial reductions in the number of infections, without a long-term lockdown of large parts of the economy.
Our SUIR model is implemented in Python and is made available through a Juypter Notebooks. This an extensive documentation of the derivation and implementation of the model, as well as transparent and reproducible simulation studies. Our model should contribute to a better understanding of the role of testing and contact restrictions.

